---
title       :  Acute and Chronic Inflammation
subtitle    :  Adapted from Review Quizze from Robbins and Cotran
author      :  Jizong Liang
job         :  Pathology and Data Scientist
framework   : io2012        # {io2012, html5slides, shower, dzslides, ...}
highlighter : prettify  # {highlight.js, prettify, highlight}
hitheme     : tomorrow      # 
widgets     : [quiz,bootstrap]            # {mathjax, quiz, bootstrap}
mode        : selfcontained # {standalone, draft}
knit        : slidify::knit2slides
---

--- &radio

In an experiment, various soluble mediators are added to a cell culture containing epidermal cells to determine which of the mediators might be useful for promoting epidermal cell growth. When epidermal growth factor (EGF) is added, it binds to epidermal cell surface receptors, inducing RAS protein activation, with subsequent transcription factor translocation and DNA transcription activation. This effect in the epidermal cells is most likely to be mediated through which of the following intracellular pathways?

1. Calcium ion channel 
2. Cyclic AMP
3. Cyclin-dependent kinase 
4. JAK/STAT system
5. _Mitogen-activated protein kinase_


*** .hint

The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascade is involved in signaling from activation via cell surface receptors for growth factors. 

*** .explanation 

The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascade is involved in signaling from activation via cell surface receptors for growth factors. 

---  &radio

In a 6-month randomized trial of a pharmacologic agent, one group of patients receives a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, and a control group does not. Laboratory measurements during the trial show no significant differences between the groups in WBC count, platelet count, hemoglobin, and creatinine. The group receiving the drug reports subjective findings different from those of the control group, however. Which of the following findings was most likely reported by the group receiving the drug?

1. Ankle swelling
2. Increased bouts of asthma 
3. Easy bruisability
4. Reduced urticaria
5. Increased febrile episodes
6. _Reduced arthritis pain_

*** .hint

*** .explanation

The COX-2 enzyme is inducible with acute inflammatory reactions, particularly in neutrophils, in synovium, and in the central nervous system. The cyclooxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism generates prostaglandins, which mediate pain, fever, and vasodilation. Ankle swelling is most likely to result from peripheral edema secondary to congestive heart failure. Asthma results from bronchoconstriction mediated by leukotrienes that are generated by the lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism. Easy bruisability results from prolonged glucocorticoid administration, which also causes leukopenia. Inhibition of histamine released from mast cells helps reduce urticaria. Fever can be mediated by prostaglandin release, not inhibition.

--- &radio
