---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Pathology reiew part I factors, cyctokines, cells 
category: Pathology
tags: [pathology, diseases,review]
---

### Inflammation and Repair


myeloperoxidase

* present in neutrophils

* converts H2O2 into HOCl–

* antimicrobial agent.

<!--break-->

lack of β2 integrin

* Inadequate adhesion on cytokine-activated endothelium





Natural killer cells

* Has Fc receptors, lyse IgG-coated target cells



Monocytes

* transform to macrophages, contain(iNOS), which generates NO, NO has antimicrobial activity. 



Activated macrophages produces 

* Interleukin-1 (IL-1)

* (TNF)

Il12

* helps triggers granulomatous inflammation



neutrophils

* NAPDH oxidase



prostaglandin

* promote vasodilation



interferon-γ

* transform Macrophage to epithelioid cells

* stimulate monocyte 



Leukotriene B4

* potent neutrophil chemotactic factor

* generated by the lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism



Nitric oxide

* mediates vasodilation, inhibits platelet



thromboxane A2

* vasoconstrictive properties



Plasmin 

* from plasminogen 

* helps lyse clots



Protein C 

* antagonizes coagulation factor V, in turn stop prothrombin to thrombin



Kallikrein

* generated by activation of Hageman factor (XII) 

* generation of bradykinin and plasmin and C5a



Thrombin

* coagulation cascade.



Fibrin

* end product of coagulation pathways

* forms a meshwork entrapping platelets and creating a plug.



Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)

* Produced by activated macrophages, mediates fever, metabolic wasting, and hypotension.



Bradykinin

* from the kinin system on surface contact of Hageman factor with collagen and basement membrane from vascular injury, vascular permeability, smooth muscle contraction, and pain. 



* Complement C5a 

is chemotactic factor for neutrophils.



complement C3b

* an opsonin may promote phagocytosis



complement C5-9

* membrane attack complex



complement C1q 

* generated in the initial stage of complement activation, eventually result in cell lysis. 



Interleukin-1 (IL-1) 

* produced by activated macrophages

* leukocyte release from bone marrow



Tumor Necrosis factor (TNF)

* produced by activated macrophages

* leukocyte release from bone marrow

* upregulate fibrinogen and SAA





Phospholipase C

* from platelet activation

* release of arachidonic acid



Histamine 

* vasodilator



Commplement activation 

* polysaccharides (alternative pathway) 

* mannose (lectin pathway)

* antibody attached to surface antigens (classic pathway)



Fibroblasts

* chronic inflammatory responses



Mononuclear infiltrates 

* typical of chronic inflammation



Epithelioid cells

* granulomatous inflammation

granulomatous inflammation

* a form of type IV hypersensitivity 

pyrogens

* TNF

* IL 1



Hageman factor

* initiates the coagulation cascade.



Immunoglobulin E

* in response to inflammatory responses with allergens and with invasive parasites.



Interleukin-12 (IL-12)

* released by macrophages stimulates T-cell responses



SAA

* serum amyloid A 

anti–streptolysin

* is the antibody made against streptolysin O, an immunogenic, oxygen-labile hemolytic toxin produced by most strains of group A and 

many strains of groups C and G streptococci. 

CRP

* C-reactive protein 



Interleukin-2 (IL-2)

* act as autocrine growth factor promote lymphocyte proliferation.

IFN-γ

* a product of CD4+ T cells and NK cells

IL-5

* activates eosinophils (part of a TH2 response.)



IL-6

* interleukin-6 



IL-10 

* immunosuppressive cytokine -> diminishes lymphocyte activation



IL-17 

* delayed- type hypersensitivity reactions.

* recruiting neutrophils to fight bacterial and fungal infections (aspergillosis and candidiasis)



IL-12

* stimulate NK cells to secrete interferon-γ 

Eosinophils 

* accumulate in acute interstitial nephritis owing to drug reactions.

ALT

* Serum Glutamic-Pyruvic Transaminase



AST

* Serum Glutamic-Oxaloacetic Transaminase



fibronectin 

* maintain a cellular scaffolding for growth and repair, and do not contract. 



metalloproteinases

* degradation of collagen and connective tissue remodeling in wound repair



Myofibroblast contraction

* Wound contraction



Integrins 

* interact with the extracellular matrix proteins (e.g. fibronectin)



Platelet-drived growth factor (PDGF)

* mediates migration and proliferation of fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells and migration of monocytes.



Serine proteinases

* are important in wound remodeling.



creatine kinase

* elevated level indicates that myocardial necrosis has occurred. 



### Immune System Diseases



HBsAg

* Surface antigen of the hepatitis B virus (HBV)

HBcAb

* Hepatitis B core Antibody (HBcAb)


D8+ T cells 

* binds to the complex of viral peptide and MHC class I mol- ecules displayed on the surface of the infected cell



Natural killer (NK) 

* recognize MHC class I molecules with self-peptides and self-recognition inhibits NK cell killing.



NOD-like receptors (NLRs)

* The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain receptors



The NLR-inflammasome 

* this pathway plays a role in the innate immune system recognition of urate crystals and promoting the inflammation associated with 

gout. 

* These receptors may also contribute to inflammation of atherosclerosis.



C-type lectin receptors (CLRs) 

* expressed on the plasma membrane of macrophages and dendritic cells detect fungal glycans and elicit inflammatory reactions to fungi. 



Mannose receptors 

* On phagocytes recognize microbial sugars with terminal mannose residues and induce microbial phagocytosis



RIG-like receptors (RLRs) 

* are located in the cytosol of most cell types and detect nucleic acids of viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm of infected cells 

to stimulate production of antiviral cytokines. 

β2-Microglobulin 

* is a component of MHC class I

* it can be increased with HIV infection and can be a substrate for amyloid fibrils in patients receiving longterm hemodialysis.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs)

* in the plasma membrane and endosomal vesicles activate transcription factors that stimulate synthesis and secretion of cytokines and 

expression of adhesion molecules to recruit and activate leukocytes.


C1 inhibitor

block activation of C1. 


Neutrophils 

* provide a nonspecific immune response, primarily to bacterial infections and not to intracellular viral infections.

C2 (complement component)

* Lacking complement component have some increase in infections, but mainly develop a disease resembling systemic lupus erythematosus

CD16

* Natural killer(NK)cells haveCD16,and Fc receptor



CD19

* B cells have surface immunoglobulin, are CD19 positive, and participate in humoral immunity



CD3

* T lymphocytes, both CD4+ and CD8+. 

CD8+
* kill melanoma cells

CD4

* (TH2) essential to the induction of type I hypersensitivity with cytokines secretion e.g. interleukin (IL)-3, IL-4, IL-5 and macrophage colony-stimulating factor

TLRs

* they incite type I interferon production to activate dendritic cells and B cells.

* promote a TH1 response, which contributes to autoimmunity

macrophage colony-stimulating factor

* the growth, recruitment, and activation of mast cells and eosinophils.



Dendritic cells

* trap antigen and aid in antigen presentation.



follicular dendritic cells (FDCs)

* The FDCs may become infected but not killed by HIV. 

* elaborate type I interferons that up-regulate antiviral proteins in neighbor- ing cells

Blood monocytes

* expressing MHC class II antigenscan migrate into tissues and become longer-lived macrophages.



Anticardiolipin

* along with anti–β2-glycoprotein “lupus anticoagulant,” 

* found with antiphospholipid syndrome, which may appear in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

* patients who has serologic testing for syphilis will yield a false-positive result

Anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies

* have specificity for SLE



antihistone antibodies 

* are characteristic of drug-induced SLE. 



Anti–SS-A antibody 

* is seen in Sjögren syndrome.



The anti–U1-ribonucleoprotein antibody

* is seen in mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD).


Smith

* Anti-Smith, specific for SLE


Anti–Jo-1 antibody 

* specificity for polymyositis/dermatomyositis.

Anti–U1-ribonucleotide protein 

* specificity for mixed connective tissue disease(MCTD).

Antibody-mediated cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC)

* there is Fc receptor–mediated inflammation and phagocytosis

Anticentromeric antibody 

* limited scleroderma (CREST syndrome).

Histidyl-tRNA synthetase

* Inflammatory Myopathies

Anti–SS-A antibody 

* characteristic of Sjögren syndrome.

TH17

* may be present in chronic inflammatory conditions such as inflammatory bowel diseases with macrophage and neutrophilic infiltrates.

SS-B

* characteristic of Sjögren syndrome.

MALT lymphoma

* The immune dysregulation that accompanies autoimmune diseases increas- es the risk for B cell lymphoid malignancies

Anticentromere antibody

* is seen most often in limited systemic sclerosis, 

anti–DNA topoisomerase 

* appears with diffuse systemic sclerosis



Amyloid 

* derived from serum amyloid-associated protein can occur in chronic infections and inflammation.


cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP)

* autoantibodies (antibodies directed against an individual’s own proteins) that are directed against peptides and proteins that are 

citrullinated. specific for rheumatoid arthritis

Eosinophils 

* accumulate in acute interstitial nephritis owing to drug reactions.



### Neoplastic diseases

CA-125 

* a tumor marker for ovarian cancer.

MYC oncogene

* activated in Burkitt lymphoma because of a t(8;14) translocation. 

* binds DNA to cause transcriptional activation of growth-related genes (cyclin D1), resulting in activation of the cell cycle.

EGF 

* (such as HER2 in breast cancers) encodes the epithelial growth factor receptor located on the cell surface

p53 and APC 

* tumor suppressor genes that are inactivated in many cancers, including colon cancer

RAS oncogene 

* encodes a GTP-binding protein that is located under the cell membrane.

N-MYC gene 

* Double minutes and homogeneously staining regions seen on a karyotype represent gene amplifications. 

K-RAS mutations

* present in many cancers, but not typically childhood neoplasms.

Lyn mutation 

* seen in some immunodeficiency states.

SLAM-associated protein (SAP)

* binds to a family of cell surface molecules involved in the activation of NK cells and T and B lymphocytes, and result in increased 

susceptibility to viral infections, particularly Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)

Epithelial dysplasias

* can be precursors of carcinomas

Ovarian neoplasms 

* not related to cervical dysplasias or carcinomas

cervical cancers 

* not related to hereditary syndromes

* cervical dysplasias are not hereditary

mutant RB gene

* lead to childhood retinoblastomas and osteosarcomas.

EMA

* many adenocarcinomas

Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)

* colon cancers

Alpha fetoprotein(AFP)

* germ cell tumors

* liver cancers

* A serum immunoglobulin level with protein electro- phoresis aids in the diagnosis of myeloma. 

CD 10 (CALLA)

* acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

PSA

* prostate cancer

Melanoma-associated antigen (MAGE)

* Also normally present in the testis

icterus

* Jaundice 

RAS oncogene 

* Mutations of the RAS oncogene reduce GTPase activity, and RAS is trapped in an activated GTP-bound state. RAS then signals the 

* not typically lymphoid malignancies.

* nucleus through cytoplasmic kinases. 

The APC gene

* can cause activation of the WNT signaling pathway

The RET proto-oncogene 

* encodes a receptor tyrosine kinase involved in neuroendocrine cells of the thyroid, adrenal medulla, and parathyroids. 

p16 (INK4a)

* In melanomas, the product of the p16 gene is an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases. Germline mutations in CDKN2A may also underlie 

familial melanomas. With loss of control over cyclin-dependent kinases, the cell cycle cannot be regulated, favoring neoplastic 

transformation.

hMSH2 gene 

* is present in most cases of hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer and functions in DNA repair.

* Microsatellite instability 

NF1 gene 

* acts as a tumor suppressor; this is a component of neurofibromatosis 

* appear at a later age.

TGF-β 

* inhibits cell proliferation by activation of growth-inhibiting genes, such as the CDKIs.

*  All pancreatic cancers and 83% of colon cancers have at least one mutational event in a TGF-β pathway. 

PTEN 

* inhibits tumor cell autophagy, giving cancer cells an edge in growth

hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1-alpha)

* Activation of this factor up-regulate VEGF for angiogensis. 

Von Hipple–Lindau (VHL) gene (3p25)

* acts as a tumor suppressor, and it normally produces a protein that binds to hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha so that it is cleared. 

* VHL mutation leads to loss of this binding protein and activation of angiogenesis factors.


TMPRSS-ETS fusion genes

* found in prostate carcinomas place ETS family transcription factor genes under the control of the TMPRSS promoter, which is activated by

androgens.

CXCR4 chemokines

* Expressed by the carcinoma cells,in the case of breast cancer

EML4-ALK fusion gene

* which is present in roughly 4% of lung carcinomas

HSR

* homogeneously staining regions 

CD44

* plays a role in cell adhesion and enables malignant cells to metastasize. 

* Solid tumors can express CD44 to enhance their spread to lymph nodes and other metastatic sites.

Vimentin 

* a protein expressed in mesenchymal neoplasms, such as sarcomas

* also up-regulated in EMT.

Aspergillus flavus

* found on moldy peanuts and other foods, produces the potent hepatic carcinogen aflatoxin B1.

Human papillomavirus (HPV)

* is a sexually transmitted disease that is associated with the development of genital squamous cell carcinomas.

* produces E7 protein binds to RB protein to cause displacement of normally sequestered transcription factors, which nullifies tumor  

suppressor activity of the RB protein

* E6 protein binds to and inactivates the p53 gene product.

HST1 

* mutation is seen in some gastric cancers.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs)

* 5% of the human genome

* miRNAs do not encode for proteins, but bind and inactivate or cleave mRNA, preventing translation of proteins by mRNA.

Phorbol esters

* examples of promoters of chemical carcinogenesis that cause tumor promotion by activating protein kinase C.

Vinyl chloride 

* rare cause of liver cancer. 

Arsenic 

* is a risk factor for skin cancer. 

Asbestos 

* exposure is linked to pleural malignant mesothelioma and to bronchogenic carcinomas in smokers.

Benzene 

* exposure is linked to leukemias

Beryllium

* exposure leads to interstitial lung disease and lung cancer

Nickel 

* exposure increases the risk of respiratory tract cancers.

naphthalene 

* a risk factor for cancers of the urinary tract.

HBx

* disrupts normal growth of infected hepatocytes.

carcinoembryonic antigen level

* Gastrointestinal tract adenocarcinomas, including those arising in the stomach, colon, and pancreas, as well as some lung carcinomas

CA-19-9 

* a tumor marker for colonic and pancreatic carcinomas

serum immunoglobulin level 

* protein electrophoresis aids in the diagnosis of myeloma.

protooncogenes

* dominant

tumor suppressor genes

* recessive, require only 1 allele to function. 

Bax/Bak

* triggered by P53 and cause mitochondria to have more membrane permeability. then cytochrome C which activates caspase 9. 

Caspase 3

* executioner caspase, bind to dead substrate and induce apotosis. 

FasL/Fas(cd 95)

* Fas ligand/receptor belongs to TNF family. Its binding induces apotosis.

Fas-Associated protein with Death Domain (FADD)

* bridges Fas receptor to procaspases 8. 

Diversification

* Clonal expansion and tumor progression

squamous cell carcinoma

* intercellular bridges and keratin production

PTEN

* PTEN acts as a tumor suppressor gene through the action of its phosphatase protein product. This phosphatase is involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, preventing cells from growing and dividing too rapidly


c-MYC gene 

* found on chromosome 8, and the t(8;14) translocation seen in many Burkitt lymphomas leads to MYC overexpression.

