---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Robbins and Cortran Review note
category: Pathology
tags: [pathology, diseases,review]
---

## Robbins and Cotran REview note

### Acute and Chronic Inflammation

* Lymphocytes are a feature of chronic inflammation.

* Nonhuman microbial substances such as double-stranded RNA of viruses, bacterial DNA, and bacterial endotoxin, can be recognized by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) on human cells as part of an innate defense mechanism against infection.

<!--break-->

* Lectins found on cell surfaces can bind a variety of substances, such as fungal polysaccharides, that trigger cellular defenses.

* T cell receptors respond to peptide antigens to trigger a cell-mediated immune response.

* Complement C3a causes increased vascular permeability by releasing histamine from mast cells.

* This immunoglobulin deficiency prevents opsonization and phagocytosis of microbes. Deficiency of integrins and selectins, or a defect in microtubules, would prevent adhesion and locomotion of neutrophils.

* Myeloperoxidase is present in the azurophilic granules of neutrophils. It converts H2O2 into HOCl–

* NADPH oxidase, resulting in generation of superoxide that is converted by spontaneous dismutation to H2O2.

* This burst can be quantitated by flow cytometric analysis.

* Bacteria are opsonized by complement C3b and IgG, allowing the bacteria to be more readily phagocytosed.

* Integrins have two chains, α and β. A genetic lack of β chains prevents firm adhesion of leukocytes to endothelial cells.

* c5a that bind to the neutrophil and activate phospholipase C to begin a series of events that culminate in the influx of calcium, which triggers contractile proteins.

* he respiratory burst to kill phagocytized organisms depends on NADPH oxidase, and a deficiency of this enzyme leads to chronic **granulomatous disease.**

* Monocytes transforming to macrophages contain cytokine-inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), which generates nitric oxide. Nitric oxide, by itself and on interaction with other reactive oxygen species, has antimicrobial activity.

* CD4 or CD8 lymphocytes can be the source for interferon-γ (IFN-γ), which stimulates macrophage production of NOS.

* Interferon-γ also is important in transforming macrophages into epithelioid cells in a granulomatous inflammatory response

* Leukotriene B4, generated in the lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism, is a potent neutrophil chemotactic factor.

* Binding of agonists such as epinephrine, collagen, or thrombin to platelet surface receptors activates phospholipase C, which catalyzes the release of arachidonic acid from two of the major membrane phospholipids, phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylcholine. 

* Bradykinin, generated from the kinin system on surface contact of Hageman factor with collagen and basement membrane from vascular injury, promotes vascular permeability, smooth muscle contraction, and pain

* C3b may promote phagocytosis

* C1q is generated in the initial stage of complement activation, which can eventually result in cell lysis.

* Leukotrienes are generated by the lipoxygenase pathway, which is not blocked by **aspirin.**

### 3 important pathways

* Activation of complement may occur via microbial cell wall components such as polysaccharides (alternative pathway) or 

* mannose (lectin pathway), 

* or antibody attached to surface antigens (classic pathway)


* Plasmin is generated from plasminogen and helps lyse clots. 

* Ongoing activation of coagulation generates an inflammatory response that further amplifies coagulation, creating a vicious cycle.

* Protein C antagonizes coagulation factor V, which catalyzes activation of prothrombin to thrombin, thereby breaking the cycle of thrombin generation

* Complement components can become activated by **plasmin** (C3) and **kallikrein** (C5), forming **anaphylatoxins** (C3a and C5a) that promote inflammation.

* A protein-rich exudate results in fibrin accumulation.

*  Granulomatous inflammation is characterized by collections of transformed macrophages called epithelioid cells. 

* Acute inflammatory cells, mainly neutrophils, exuded into a body cavity or space form a purulent (suppurative) exudate, typically associated with **liquefactive necrosis.** 

* An abscess is a localized collection of neutrophils **within tissues.**

* In fibrinous inflammation, exudation of blood proteins (including fibrinogen, which polymerizes to fibrin) gives a grossly shaggy appearance to surfaces overlying the inflammation. 

* Chronic inflammation occurs when there is a preponderance of mononuclear cells, such as lymphocytes, macrophages, and plasma cells

* Most bacterial pneumonias resolve, and progression to continued chronic inflammation is uncommon.

* In acute inflammation, the healing process of fibrosis and angiogenesis has not begun. 

* Activated macrophages can secrete various cytokines that promote angiogenesis and fibrosis, including platelet-derived growth factor, fibroblast growth factor, interleukin-1 (IL-1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF). 

* Plasmodium produces malaria, a parasitic infection without a significant degree of lung involvement.

* The pyrogens stimulate prostaglandin synthesis in the hypothalamus to “reset the thermostat,” so that fever occurs as a sign of the acute inflammatory response

* Hageman factor initiates the coagulation cascade.

* Interleukin-12 (IL-12) released by macrophages **stimulates T-cell responses**.

* nitric oxide produced in macrophages aids in microbial killing.

* IL-1 and TNF can have autocrine, paracrine, and endocrine effects.

* C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, and serum amyloid A (SAA) protein. These proteins, particularly fibrinogen, and immunoglobulins increase RBC rouleaux formation to increase the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), which is a nonspecific indicator of inflammation.

* CRP production is upregulated by interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas fibrinogen and SAA are upregulated mainly by tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin-1 (IL-1). 

* Hepatocytes are quiescent (stable) cells that can reenter the cell cycle and proliferate in response to hepatic injury, enabling the liver to regenerate partially.

* Acute hepatitis results in hepatocyte necrosis, marked by elevations in AST and ALT. 

* Vitamin C deficiency leads to scurvy, with reduced lysyl oxidase enzyme activity that helps cross-link fibrillar collagens to provide tensile strength.

* final phase of wound healing, which is extensive by the end of the first month.

* The inhibition of metalloproteinases leads to decreased degradation of collagen and impaired connective tissue remodeling in wound repair. 

* Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) can be produced by endothelium, macrophages, smooth muscle cells, and platelets

* PDGF mediates migration and proliferation of fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells and **migration of monocytes.**

* Glucocorticoids inhibit wound healing by impairing collagen synthesis. 

* Serine proteinases are important in wound remodeling.

* Organization occurs as granulation tissue is replaced by fibrous tissue

* If normal tissue architecture is restored, resolution of inflammation has occurred.

* Secondary union describes the process by which large wounds fill in and contract.

* The elevated creatine kinase level indicates that myocardial necrosis has occurred(The elevation in the CK level is indicative of myocardial cell necrosis, because this intracellular enzyme does not leak in large quantities from intact myocardial cells.)

* Coagulative necrosis is typical of myocardial infarction, but after 1 month, a scar would be present.

### cellular injury

* Nodular regeneration is typical of hepatocyte injury because hepatocytes are stable cells.

* Accumulation of fat within cells is a common manifestation of sublethal cell injury or, uncommonly, of inborn errors in fat metabolism

* Nodular prostatic hyperplasia (also known as benign prostatic hyperplasia [BPH]) is a common condition in older men that results from proliferation of both prostatic glands and stroma.

* Aplasia refers to lack of embryonic development; 

* Hyaline change (hyalinosis) refers to a nonspecific, pink, glassy eosinophilic appearance of cells.

* Steatosis (fatty change) can lead to hepatomegaly, but not as a regenerative process.

* Irreversible cell injury is associated with loss of membrane integrity. This allows intracellular enzymes such as AST and ALT to leak into the serum.

* Blunt trauma produces hemorrhage

* Gangrenous necrosis is mainly coagulative necrosis, but occurs over an extensive area of tissues.

* Intestinal infarction is a form of coagulative necrosis. 

* Coagulative necrosis is the typical result of ischemia in most solid organs.

* Fatty change is most often a feature of hepatocyte injury, and the cell integrity is maintained

* Reduction in oxidative phosphorylation leads to reduction in synthesis of ATP and diminished activity of the plasma membrane sodium pump, which maintains high intracellular potassium concentration. Loss of ATP leads to efflux of intracellular potassium, while net influx of sodium and water promote cell swelling. A marked rise in plasma potassium can indicate significant cell damage or death (such as skeletal muscle crush injury or hemolysis).

* Decreased tissue perfusion from hypotensive shock leads to hypoxemia and depletion of ATP when cell metabolism shifts from aerobic to anaerobic glycolysis. This shift causes depletion of glycogen stores and increased production and accumulation of **lactic acid**, reducing intracellular pH

* Creatinine would increase with reduced renal function from decreased renal perfusion, but this would not explain the changes in other tissues. 

* An increase in troponin I suggests irreversible myocardial injury.

* Irreversible cellular injury is likely to occur when cytoplasmic calcium increases

* The excess calcium activates ATPases, phospholipases, proteases, and endonucleases, which injure cell components.

* Mitochondrial permeability is increased to release cytochrome c, which activates caspases leading to apoptosis. 

* The drug acetaminophen can be converted to toxic metabolites in this manner. Glutathione in the cytosol helps to reduce cellular injury from many toxic metabolites and free radicals

* Glutathione peroxidase reduces such injury by catalyzing the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide

* Lactate dehydrogenase is present in a variety of cells, and its elevation in the serum is an indicator of cell injury and death.

* Phospholipases decrease cellular phospholipids and promote cell membrane injury

* The free iron contributes to generation of cellular free radicals via the Fenton reaction.

* Hemosiderin is a storage form of iron from excess local or systemic accumulation of ferritin, and by itself does not cause cell injury until large amounts are present, as with hemochromatosis

* The onset of menstruation is orderly, programmed cell death (apoptosis) through hormonal stimuli, an example of the intrinsic (mitochondrial) apoptotic pathway

* The BCL2 gene product inhibits cellular apoptosis by binding to Apaf-1. 

* The BAX gene product promotes apoptosis,

* The FAS gene encodes for a cellular receptor for Fas ligand that signals apoptosis.

* Lipases are activated in enzymatic fat necrosis.

* Granzyme B is a serine protease found in CTLs that can directly trigger apoptosis. 

* CTLs express Fas ligand on their surfaces, and when contacting Fas receptors on the target cell, the ligand can induce apoptosis by the **extrinsic (death receptor–initiated) pathway.**

* Endonucleases are generated following caspase activation and lead to nuclear fragmentation.

* The RIP1-RIP3 complex is called a necrosome

* Decreased serum albumin levels and increased prothrombin time suggest alcohol-induced hepatocyte damag

* Hemosiderin is a storage form of iron that appears in tissues of the mononuclear phagocyte system (e.g., marrow, liver, spleen)

* Lipofuscin is a golden brown pigment that increases with aging in cell cytoplasm, mainly in cardiac myocytes and in hepatocytes.

* Metastases are mass lesions that impart a tan-to-white appearance to tissues.

* Amyloid is an abnormal protein derived from a variety of precursors, such as immunoglobulin light chains

* Steatosis usually occurs with ingestion of hepatotoxins, such as alcohol.

* Hypercalcemia can have a variety of causes, including primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism, bone destruction secondary

* Because the solubility product of calcium and phosphorus must be maintained, the serum calcium is depressed, triggering increased parathyroid hormone output to increase the calcium level, which promotes calcium deposition. 

* The granulomas of tuberculosis have caseous necrosis with dystrophic calcification.


* The X chromosome transcribes XIST, a lncRNA that binds to and represses X chromosome expression.


* MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding RNA sequences that inhibit the translation of mRNAs

* Gene-silencing RNAs (small interfering RNAs [siRNAs]) have the same function as miRNAs, but they are produced synthetically for experimental purposes.

* Heterophagocytosis by macrophages requires that endocytosed vacuoles fuse with lysosomes to degrade the engulfed material.

* Actin is a microfilament involved with cell movement

* Cytokeratins form cytoskeletal elements of epithelial cells. 

* Desmin forms the scaffold in muscle cells on which actin and myosin contract.

* Lamin is associated with the nuclear membrane.

* RAS proteins transduce signals from growth factor receptors, such as epidermal growth factor, that have intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity.

* The MAP kinase cascade is involved in signaling from activation via cell surface receptors for growth factors. This pathway is particularly important for signaling of EGF and fibroblast growth factor.

* JAK/STAT pathways typically are recruited by cytokine receptors.

* Basic fibroblast growth factor is a potent inducer of angiogenesis.

* Endostatin is an inhibitor of angiogenesis.

* Platelet-derived growth factor plays a role in vascular remodeling.

* TGF-β stimulates many steps in fibrogenesis, including fibroblast chemotaxis and production of collagen by fibroblasts, while inhibiting degradation of collagen.

* Hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid) is a large mucopolysaccharide, one form of proteoglycan, which forms a hydrated, compressible gel contributing to the shock-absorbing function of joint surfaces.

### immune System diseases

* The NLR-inflammasome pathway plays a role in the innate immune system recognition of urate crystals and promoting the inflammation associated with gout.

* Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in the plasma membrane and endosomal vesicles activate transcription factors that stimulate synthesis and secretion of cytokines and expression of adhesion molecules to recruit and activate leukocytes.

* Natural killer (NK) cells have CD16,an Fc receptor that allows them to bind to opsonized cells and lyse them. This is a form of type II hypersensitivity with antibody-mediated disease.

* B cells have surface immunoglobulin, are CD19 positive, and participate in humoral immunity

* CD4+ cells are T lymphocytes that are “helper” cells; they have T cell receptors and are CD3 positive.

* Dendritic cells elaborate type I interferons that up-regulate antiviral proteins in neighboring cells. 

* Because they survive selectively, the CD4+:CD8+ ratio is reversed so that it is typically less than 1 with advanced HIV infection.

* Blood monocytes expressing MHC class II antigens can migrate into tissues and become longer-lived macrophages.

* Methotrexate is useful in the treatment of graft-versus-host disease and for some malignancies

* Penicillin is an antibiotic that can induce a type I hypersensitivity reaction in sensitized persons.

* Anticardiolipin, along with anti–β2-glycoprotein “lupus anticoagulant,” are found with antiphospholipid syndrome, which may appear in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).

* antihistone antibodies are characteristic of drug-induced SLE

* Anti–SS-A antibody is seen in Sjögren syndrome. 

* anti–U1-ribonucleoprotein antibody is seen in mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD).

* Anti-Scl-70 (also called anti-topoisomerase I after the type I topoisomerase target[1]) is an anti-topoisomerase antibody-type of anti-nuclear autoantibodies, seen mainly in diffuse systemic scleroderma (with a sensitivity of 28–70%), but is also seen in 10–18% of cases of the more limited form of systemic scleroderma called CREST syndrome.[2] Anti Scl-70 antibodies are associated with more severe scleroderma disease.

* Myasthenia gravis is a form of type II hypersensitivity reaction in which antibody is directed against cell surface receptors. Thymic hyperplasia or thymoma is likely to be present.

* Immune complex–mediated injury is a feature of dermatomyositis.

* Muscle lysis by CD8+ T cells occurs in polymyositis.

* When antibody is directed at a parasitic infection, there is Fc receptor–mediated inflammation and phagocytosis, characteristic for ADCC. IgG and IgE antibodies bearing Fc receptors coat the parasite. Macrophages, natural killer cells, and neutrophils can then recognize the Fc receptor and destroy the antibody-coated target cells.

* CD4+ cells of the TH2 type are essential to the induction of type I hypersensitivity because they can secrete cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-3, IL-4, IL-5, and
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, which are required for the growth, recruitment, and activation of mast cells and eosinophils

* The TH17 subset of CD4 cells plays a role in delayedtype hypersensitivity reactions. Many persons react to nickel, particularly with body piercing jewelry. IL-17 may also be useful in recruiting neutrophils to fight bacterial as well as fungal infections such as aspergillosis and candidiasis.

*  IL-5 activates eosinophils as part of a TH2 response.

* Perivascular accumulation of T cells, particularly CD4+ cells, is typical of delayed hypersensitivity skin reactions, driven by a TH1 response mediated largely by release of the cytokine interleukin-2.

* Streptococcal M proteins cross-react with cardiac glycoproteins, resulting in rheumatic heart disease, a form of autoimmunity. 

* This young woman has a classic picture of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)—the erythematous malar facial skin rash shown in the figure, and renal failure with proteinuria and hematuria from immune complex deposition in the glomeruli. Defective clearance and hence increased burden of nuclear apoptotic bodies in thymic lymphocyte development is considered a fundamental mechanism that underlies SLE

* Widespread and nonspecific activation of T cells by superantigens occurs in toxic shock syndrome.

* Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) can develop anti-RBC antibodies, which can cause hemolytic anemia. Cytopenias, including leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia, also are common.

* Anticentromere antibody is seen most often with limited scleroderma, whereas anti–DNA topoisomerase I is found with diffuse scleroderma

* Cyclic citrullinated polypeptide and rheumatoid factor are found most often with rheumatoid arthritis.

* Anti–U1-RNP can be found with mixed connective tissue disease.

* A drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)– like condition may be caused by drugs such as isoniazid, procainamide, and hydralazine.

* Anti–Jo-1 antibody has specificity for polymyositis/dermatomyositis.

* Anti–SS-A antibody is most characteristic of Sjögren syndrome.

* discoid lupus erythematosus, with skin lesions similar to those of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), but with systemic involvement much less likely to occur. Self nucleic acids mimic their microbial counterparts, and in conjunction with TLRs, they incite type I interferon production to activate dendritic cells and B cells. (has **follicular plugging**)

* Sjögrensyndromeischaracterizedbyimmunologically mediated destruction of salivary and lacrimal glands and other exocrine glands lining the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts. Dryness and crusting of the nose can lead to perforation of the nasal septum. In 25% of cases, extraglandular tissues, such as lung, skin, kidney, and muscles, may be involved. The immune dysregulation that accompanies autoimmune diseases increases the risk for B cell lymphoid malignancies, such as MALT lymphoma

* Esophageal dysmotility is a feature of scleroderma.

* Nongonococcal urethritis is seen in reactive arthritis, along with conjunctivitis and arthritis.

* Diffuse systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) initially has widespread skin involvement but rapidly progresses to visceral organ involvement, including the small arteries of the kidney. These are damaged by a hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis that can be complicated by very high blood pressure and renal failure.

* Ankylosing spondylitis is one of the spondyloarthropathies; it is characterized by low back pain from sacroiliitis and positive serology for **HLA-B27**

* In rheumatoid arthritis, there is often progressive joint deformity; the serologic tests likely to be positive include rheumatoid factor and antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP).

* Dermatomyositis is a form of inflammatory myopathy in which capillaries are the primary target for antibody and complement-mediated injury. Anti–Jo-1 antibodies, although not present in most cases, are quite specific for inflammatory myopathies.

* In reactive arthritis (with conjunctivitis, arthritis, and nongonococcal urethritis), there is often a positive serology for HLA-B27 and a history of either nongonoccocal urethritis with Chlamydia or gastrointestinal infection with Campylobacter, Salmonella, or Shigella organisms. 

* Endothelitis with intimal injury occurs with acute rejection, but this can be treated

* Fibrinoid necrosis and thrombosis are more typical of hyperacute rejection,

* Amyloid derived from serum amyloid-associated protein can occur in chronic infections and inflammation.

* Interstitial and glomerular fibrosis and blood vessel thickening occur in chronic rejection,

* The localized apoptosis with GVHD does not produce significant substrate proteins for amyloid formation. 

* Patients with the hyper-IgM syndrome produce normal (or even supranormal) levels of IgM antibodies to antigens but lack the ability to produce the IgG, IgA, and IgE isotypes; the underlying defect is an inability of T cells to induce B cell isotype switching. The most common genetic abnormality is mutation of the gene encoding CD40L.

* An absence of adenosine deaminase characterizes a form of severe combined immunodeficiency.

* The deletion of chromosome 22q11 is a feature of the DiGeorge anomaly

* HIV infection can be accompanied by opportunistic infections, particularly Pneumocystis

* mutations in the gene encoding an adaptor molecule called SLAM-associated protein (SAP) that binds to a family of cell surface molecules involved in the activation of NK cells and T and B lymphocytes, and result in increased susceptibility to viral infections, particularly Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)

* These findings point to mutations in the gene encoding an adaptor molecule called SLAM-associated protein (SAP) that binds to a family of cell surface molecules involved in the activation of NK cells and T and B lymphocytes, and result in increased susceptibility to viral infections, particularly Epstein-Barr virus (EBV).

* When the family history indicates males are affected, then SCID is most likely X-linked and due to mutations in the common γ chain that is a part of many cytokine receptors, such as interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-7, and IL15.

* individuals lacking complement component C2 have some increase in infections, but mainly develop a disease resembling systemic lupus erythematosus.

* Hereditary angioedema is a rare autosomal-recessive disorder of the complement pathway in which there is a deficiency of antigenic or functional C1 inhibitor, resulting in recurrent episodes of edema.

* C3 deficiency is accompanied by recurrent infections with pyogenic bacteria.

* β2-Microglobulin is a component of MHC class I; it can be increased with HIV infection and can be a substrate for amyloid fibrils in patients receiving long- term hemodialysis.

* Individuals with a selective (isolated) IgA deficiency are bothered by minor recurrent sinopulmonary infections and by diarrhea. IgA is useful in innate immunity against bacterial organisms in the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts.

* Immune reactions against fungal and viral infection are me- diated mainly by T cells.

* Pneumocystis infections are seen in patients with more severe acquired or inherited immunodeficiency disorders, particularly patients with AIDS, which affect cell-mediated immunity.

* The X-linked disorder known as Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is characterized by thrombocytopenia, ec- zema, and **decreased IgM**. there is an increased risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma

* Hypocalcemia is seen in neonates with DiGeorge syndrome that affects parathyroid glands.

* The most common neoplasms seen in association with AIDS are B cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas.

* The reverse transcriptase gene of HIV undergoes mutation on average once per 2000 replications, a very high rate, which can account for the appearance of drug resistance. 

* The p24 antigen is a component of the HIV virion and is used to de- tect infection, but it is not a target of drug therapy

* Entry of HIV into cells requires binding to the CD4 molecule and co-receptor molecules, such as CCR5 and CXCR4. These HIV co-receptors are receptors for chemo- kines on the surface of T cells and macrophages.

* Three types of cells are most likely to carry HIV: den- dritic cells (Langerhans cells in epithelium, follicular den- dritic cells in lymph nodes), monocyte-macrophages, and CD4+ T cells.

* Anti–neutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (C-ANCA or P-ANCA) can be seen in some patients with vasculitis.

* The anti–streptolysin O (ASO) titer is elevated in patients with rheumatic fever, but there is no serious immunosuppres- sion.

* Progression of HIV disease is monitored by levels of HIV-1 mRNA in the blood and by CD4+ cell counts

* Kaposi sarcoma is associated with a herpesvirus agent that is sexually transmitted: human her- pesvirus 8 (HHV-8), also called the Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus.

* HIV, although present in the lymphocytes and monocytes, is not detected in the spindle cells that proliferate in Kaposi sarcoma.

* the follicular dendritic cells and the macrophages are not destroyed in large numbers by the virus and can become a reservoir for infection

* Natural killer cells, CD19+ B cells, and plasma cells are not directly affected by HIV.

* Amyloidosis is most often caused by excessive light chain production with plasma cell dyscrasias such as multiple myeloma (AL am- yloid). His spinal lesions are focal collections of neoplastic plasma cells

* Both rheumatoid factor (RF) and C-reactive protein (CRP) are markers for in- flammation, and the amyloid associated with chronic inflam- matory conditions is derived from serum amyloid associated (SAA) protein.

* Pro- longed infection also stimulates production of colony- stimulating factors (CSFs), which increase the bone marrow output of leukocytes

* Amyloid derived from β2-microglobulin occurs with hemo- dialysis-associated amyloidosis. Amyloid derived from light chains in association with multiple myeloma has AL fibrils. Cardiac and heredofamilial forms of amyloidosis have fibrils derived from prealbumin transthyretin (TTR).

* α-Fetoprotein is present during fetal life, but it is best known in adults as a serum tumor marker.

* Calcitonin forms the precursor for amyloid deposited in thyroid medullary carcinomas. 

* TGF-B also in the development of fibrosis in lung, liver, and kidneys that follows chronic inflammation.

* TGF-β is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that serves to limit and terminate inflammatory responses. It does so by inhibiting lymphocyte proliferation and the activity of other leukocytes.

* Medical Definition of HETEROPHAGY. : digestion in a fused vacuole and lysosome of material taken into a cell by phagocytosis or pinocytosis

* Microsatellite instability occurs with mutation in genes, such as hMSH2, that repair DNA damage. 

* E This patient has clinical features of neurofibromatosis type 1. The NF1 gene encodes for a GTPase-activating protein that facilitates the conversion of active (GTP-bound) RAS to inactive (GDP-bound) RAS. Loss of NF1 prevents such con- version and traps RAS in the active signal-transmitting stage that drives cell proliferation.

* The p53 and c-MYC genes favor this metabolic change, whereas PTEN inhibits tumor cell autophagy, giving cancer cells an edge in growth.

* t(14,18) BCL2, t(8,14) Burkitt Lymphoma, Myc.  t(9,22) Philidelphia 

* CD44 plays a role in cell adhesion and enables malignant cells to metastasize.

* A paraneoplastic syndrome results from ectopic secretion of a hormone by tumor (e.g., lung cancer cells producing corticotropin). Tumor heterogeneity does not refer to two separate kinds of neoplasms; it refers to heterogeneity with a given tumor or metastasis.

* A The oncogenic potential of human papillomavirus (HPV), a sexually transmissible agent, is related to products of two early viral genes—E6 and E7. E7 protein binds to RB protein to cause displacement of normally sequestered transcription factors, which nullifies tumor suppressor activity of the RB protein. E6 protein binds to and inactivates the p53 gene product.

* In- fection with Epstein-Barr virus is associated with various cancers, including Burkitt lymphoma and nasopharyngeal carcinoma

* intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is a blood product administered intravenously

* SOLU-MEDROL Sterile Powder is an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid, which contains methylprednisolone sodium succinate as the active ingredient.

* Reiter syndrome is characterized by conjunctivitis, arthritis, and nongonococcal urethritis, with a positive serology for HLA-B27.

*  In rheumatoid arthritis, there is often progressive joint deformity; the serologic tests likely to be positive include rheumatoid factor and antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP). 

* Aortic dissection is more likely in Reiter syndrome.

* Ankylosing spondylitis is marked by kyphosis.

* Dementia can be seen in patients with AIDS.

* B cells have surface immunoglobulin, are CD19 positive, and participate in humoral immunity

* CD4+ cells are T lymphocytes that are “helper” cells; they have T cell receptors and are CD3 positive.

* Stem cells are CD34 positive and can give rise to the whole range of cells in the immune system and blood-forming cells.

* This patient has clinical features of neurofibromatosis type 1. The NF1 gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein that facilitates the conversion of active (GTP-bound) RAS to inactive (GDP-bound) RAS.


